# Summary

Just like the other creational patterns, a Prototype is used to create an object at runtime.
A Prototype is created from an object that is already instantiated. Imagine using the existing object as the class template to create a new object, rather than calling a specific class. Note that, the clone method used in the concept video demonstrated didn't copy the class methods to the new object. The clones only contained copies of the instance properties. If you want your new clone to have the same methods of the original class, then use the classes' constructor when returning the clone as I did in the clone(mode) method in document.ts.
The ability to create a Prototype means that you don't need to create many classes for specific combinations of objects. You can create one object, that has a specific configuration, then clone it and alter some factor of it, then create another clone from this altered configuration, and keep continuing to create many objects which are all slightly different from each other.
New Prototypes can be created at runtime, without knowing what kind of attributes the prototype may eventually have. E.g., You have a sophisticated object that was randomly created from many factors, and you want to clone it rather than adding all those same factors over and over again until the new object matches the one that could have just been cloned.
A prototype is also useful for when you want to create a copy of an object, but creating that copy may be very resource intensive. E.g., you can either create a new houseboat from the builder example, or clone an existing houseboat from one already in memory.
When designing your clone() method, you should consider which elements will be shallow copied or deep copied.
